We use classifications provided by citizen scientists in the Galaxy Zoo 
project to investigate the correlation between bulge size and spiral arm 
winding in spiral galaxies. Whilst the traditional spiral sequence is based on 
a combination of both measures, and is supposed to favour arm winding where 
disagreement exists, we demonstrate that, in modern usage, the spiral 
classifications Sa--Sd are based almost entirely on bulge size, with no 
reference to spiral arm shape. Furthermore, in a volume limited sample of 
galaxies with both automated and visual measures of bulge prominence and 
spiral arm tightness, there is at best a weak correlation between the two. 
Galaxies with small bulges have a wide range of arm winding, while those with 
larger bulges favour tighter arms. This observation, interpreted as revealing 
a variable winding speed as a function of bulge size, provides evidence that 
the majority of spiral arms are not static density waves, but rather wind-up 
over time. The ``winding problem" must be solved in most galaxies by the 
constant reforming of spiral arms, rather than a static density wave. We 
further observe that galaxies exhibiting strong bars tend to both have more 
obvious bulges, and be found with more loosely wound arms at a given bulge 
size relative to unbarred spirals. This observations suggests that the 
presence of a bar may slow the winding speed of spirals, and may also drive 
other processes (such as density waves) which generate spiral arms. It is 
remarkable that after over 170 years of observations of spiral arms in 
galaxies our understanding of them remains incomplete.
