{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red16\green60\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c1680\c19835\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14913\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17740\viewh14780\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Response to Referee and Editor: \
\
\cf4 Comments to Editor only (not for referee): I again apologise for the delay in response, which was not caused by any of this being particularly difficulty to deal with, just that I was preoccupied with other projects. \
\
 Now I have got through this is detail I am a little concerned (more than I have been in most reports I\'92ve dealt with to date) that most comments end up boiling down to \'93please cite the papers of the Seigar et al. group\'94. I will refrain from speculating on the identify of the anonymous referee, however phrases like \'93authors omitted citations to some important papers from the 1990s\'94, and \'93While these papers are now 20+ years old, they are considered seminal works in the field, so they should be appropriately cited.\'94, where used to describe papers which are definitely relevant, but I would consider at best niche, and really some of the results (e.g. the SMBH-pitch angle correlation) are not that heavily adopted by our community (as reflected in the low citation numbers for the papers mentioned). In most cases I just added the citations, but it started to feel a little inappropriate by the end, and I was able to find some published counter studies to include as well. \
\
At the moment I\'92m just flagging this as something I noticed, but if the referee comes back with more requests to cite papers by Seigar et al. I may ask for something more. \
\
\cf2 Assistant Editor's Comments:\
Please ensure that all textual labels in figures are at least as large as the caption text; any smaller and they become too difficult to read.\'a0\
\
Please shorten the length of the abstract, it should not be more than 250 words.\'a0\'a0\
\
Please include 1-6 keywords from the approved keywords list -\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://academic.oup.com/DocumentLibrary/mnras/keywords.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc5 https://academic.oup.com/DocumentLibrary/mnras/keywords.pdf}}\ul \ulc5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \ulnone Abstract cut. Keywords added. I increased the size of Figures, so I think it\'92s OK now, but let me know if you still think any are a problem. \cf2 \
\
Reviewer's Comments:\
\
\cf4 We thank the referee for a thorough review which has improved the discussion of the results, and particularly our thoroughness in citing relevant literature papers. Most new text in the paper is added with a \\new\{\} command which hi-lights it in blue. \cf2 \
\
My specific comments are:\
\
1.\'a0 The authors do not discuss how inclination effects bias their results.\
\'a0 \'a0 In several papers by Seigar and Davis etc., they spend some time\
\'a0 \'a0 discussing how they correct for inclination when measuring\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angles.\'a0 While I understand this is not feasible in a Galaxy Zoo\
\'a0 \'a0 project, the authors should discuss how inclination effects may bias\
\'a0 \'a0 their results.\
\
\cf4 Our selection, which requires that spiral arms are clearly visible, skews the distribution of inclinations of our sample to be more face-on than a properly volume limited sample. I have added some clarifications on this point that the sample is not truly volume limited\
\
Beyond that we checked the results as a function of inclination (axial ratio) and see no significant trends. \cb6 We have added a discussion of this in the paper. \
\cf7 \
\cf2 \cb3 \
2.\'a0 I was a little bit surprised that the authors omitted citations to some\
\'a0 \'a0 important papers from the 1990s that may actually support their results.\
\'a0 \'a0 The authors should cite Seigar & James (1998, MNRAS, 299, 685) who\
\'a0 \'a0 showed that there is a lot of scatter in a plot of pitch angle vs\
\'a0 \'a0 Hubble type (see their Figure 4) and also a lot of scatter between\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angle and the fraction of K-band light in the disk (see their\
\'a0 \'a0 Figure 5).\'a0 However, Seigar & James (1998, MNRAS, 299, 673) also\
\'a0 \'a0 find a lot of scatter (or a lack of a correlation) between Bulge-to-\
\'a0 \'a0 disk ratio and Hubble type, which does not support the results here.\
\'a0 \'a0 Finally, in Figure 13 of de Jong (1996, A&A, 313, 45) shows a lot of\
\'a0 \'a0 scatter between a plot of bulge absolute magnitude and morphological\
\'a0 \'a0 type.\'a0 While these papers are now 20+ years old, they are considered\
\'a0 \'a0 seminal works in the field, so they should be appropriately cited.\
\
\cf4 Thank you for bringing these interesting works to our attention. These citations have been added and discussed where we talk about T-type correlation with bulge size. It is interesting how the same data can be used to argue that the correlation is clear, or the scatter is large so it is a big predictor (e.g. how the Kennicutt 1981 data is described differently by Kennicutt himself, and de Jong (1996). I have added a small reflection on this in the Discussion section. \cf7 \
\cf2 \
3.\'a0 The authors do not spend enough time accurately discussing the\
\'a0 \'a0 correlations expected from density wave theories.\'a0 According to\
\'a0 \'a0 the theory of global models (Bertin et al. 1989, ApJ, 338, 78;\
\'a0 \'a0 Bertin et al. 1989, ApJ, 338, 104; Bertin 1993, PASP, 105, 640),\
\'a0 \'a0 in which density waves are treated similarly to waves on a string,\
\'a0 \'a0 the pitch angle of the spiral structure depends upon not only\
\'a0 \'a0 the bulge mass, but also the gas density in the disk.\'a0 The result\
\'a0 \'a0 of Davis et al. (2015) finds a correlation between three\
\'a0 \'a0 quantities, the bulge mass, the spiral pitch angle, and the HI\
\'a0 \'a0 surface density in the disk, a result they refer to as a fundamental\
\'a0 \'a0 plane for spiral structure.\'a0 I feel that the result of Davis et al.\
\'a0 \'a0 (2015) is mis-represented in this paper, and only very briefly (and\
\'a0 \'a0 incorrectly) discussed in the first paragraph of Section 3.2 and in\
\'a0 \'a0 the third pagraph of Section 4. This needs to be corrected.\
\
\cf4 Thank you. We have added these citations, expanded the discussion of static density wave theory and revised our explanations of the Davis et al. results.  We also looked at an apparent magnitude limited sample, and see a much stronger correlation, so we suspect this could be the reason for the different conclusions, and now comment on that. \
\cf2 \
4.\'a0 The main basis the authors use to conclude that spiral structure must\
\'a0 \'a0 wind up is their result that, for a given bulge size, there is a lot\
\'a0 \'a0 of scatter in the spiral pitch angles.\'a0 The authors need to spend more\
\'a0 \'a0 time discussing other potential causes of this scatter.\'a0 One of these\
\'a0 \'a0 sources of scatter has already been explaing in my point 3 above, i.e.,\
\'a0 \'a0 the relation is between three parameters and the scatter results\
\'a0 \'a0 from differences in galaxy to galaxy disk gas denities.\'a0 Another\
\'a0 \'a0 potential source of scatter is differences in the Toomre stability\
\'a0 \'a0 criterion (Q) as discussed in Seigar et al. (2008, ApJL, 678, L93).\
\'a0 \'a0 To me it seems that the authors jump to some very strong conclusions\
\'a0 \'a0 based on the scatter that they have found.\'a0 Furthermore, if inclination\
\'a0 \'a0 effects result in strong biases, this could be the dominant source\
\'a0 \'a0 of scatter in their figures.\
\
\cf4 \cb6 We disagree that our conclusions were presented as being \'93strong\'94, never-the-less we have modified our language in both the Discussion, Summary and Abstract to hopefully make it clearer that we are being speculative (and could be wrong).  We have also added something about how other sources of scatter should be investigated in future work, and that disc gas density could be an interesting driver of the scatter to look into (referencing Davis et al.). \
\cf2 \cb3 \
\
5.\'a0 In the third paragraph of Section 4, the authors briefly state that\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angles in density waves should correlate with shear in the disk.\
\'a0 \'a0 This correlation has been confirmed observationally in Seigar et al.\
\'a0 \'a0 (2005, MNRAS, 359, 1065), Seigar et al. (2006, ApJ, 645, 1012) and\
\'a0 \'a0 Seigar et al. (2014, ApJ, 795, 90).\'a0 Also, the same results bears\
\'a0 \'a0 out in simulations (Grand et al. 2013, A&A, 553, A77).\'a0 These papers\
\'a0 \'a0 should at least be cited at this point.\
\
\cf4 These citations have been added, however we also discovered Yu et al. 2018, 2019 who not only do not see the correlation, but also cast into doubt some of the pitch angle measurements of Seigar et al. A citation to this more recent work has also been added. \cf7 \
\cf2 \
\
6.\'a0 At the end of their discussion, the authors pretty much write off the\
\'a0 \'a0 relation between pitch angle and SMBH mass that has been developed\
\'a0 \'a0 over the last decade.\'a0 I think this is difficult to write off with a\
\'a0 \'a0 simple wave of the hand.\'a0 Several papers seem to be pointing in the\
\'a0 \'a0 same direction.\'a0 If the authors want to discuss this, it should be\
\'a0 \'a0 discussed in more detail.\'a0 I suggest they cite the discovery paper,\
\'a0 \'a0 Seigar et al. (2008, ApJL, 678, L93), as well as the follow up paper\
\'a0 \'a0 by (Berrier et al. 2011 ApJ, 769, 132) which confirmed the\
\'a0 \'a0 relationship.\'a0 Furthermore, Mutlu-Pakdil et al. (2018, MNRAS, 474,\
\'a0 \'a0 2594) have shown that the relationship between pitch angle and\
\'a0 \'a0 SMBH mass also shows up in galaxy images from the Illustris simulation.\
\'a0 \'a0 I think this needs more discussion.\'a0 Given the current issues in their\
\'a0 \'a0 paper, I don't think the authors should be so quick to write off a\
\'a0 \'a0 result that is now on rather firm footing, especially as the simulation\
\'a0 \'a0 data seems to confirm the correlation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0
\cf7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0
\cf4 We do not agree that the correlation between pitch angle and black hole is as well established as the referee feels, however we have expanded our discussion of these works and cited all mentioned here. We note that we are not the only authors to cast doubt on this observed correlation from a series of papers all of which have Seigar as at least a co-author, with the comments from Yu et al. 2019 on the significant pitch angle errors they find in the Seigar et al. 2005 and 2006 samples being of particular concern. It might be correct, but we feel further work is needed, and the discovery of Simmons et al. 2013, that total galaxy mass, rather than bulge mass, may be a better predictor of black hole mass is also interesting in this context, as perhaps disc mass correlates with spiral pitch angle, leading to a correlation with black hole mass in disc dominated galaxies, without needing to invoke a weak correlation with bulge mass. \
\cf7 \
\
\cf4 OTHER CHANGES: \
* Corrected an error in the captions of Figure 5 and 6. \
* Various spelling and grammer corrections. \
* Added a handful of other relevant citations. }