{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red16\green60\blue192;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl220\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Sept 2nd. Referee Report\
\
Assistant Editor's Comments:\
\
Please ensure that all textual labels in figures are at least as large as the caption text; any smaller and they become too difficult to read.\'a0\
\
Please shorten the length of the abstract, it should not be more than 250 words.\'a0\'a0\
\
Please include 1-6 keywords from the approved keywords list -\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://academic.oup.com/DocumentLibrary/mnras/keywords.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://academic.oup.com/DocumentLibrary/mnras/keywords.pdf}}\
\
\
Reviewer's Comments:\
\
This paper presents some interesting results based upon a Galaxy Zoo\
project to determine bulge size and tightness of spiral arms in a large\
sample of (5000) galaxies.\'a0 The authors look at how these parameters\
correlate with each other and they find that, for a given bulge size,\
there is a lot of scatter in the spiral pitch angles.\'a0 From this, they\
go on to conclude that spiral structure must wind up over time, based\
upon recent theoretical results and simulations.\
\
While I think this is an interesting paper, and I think the authors can\
eventually get a paper worthy of publication in Monthly Notices of the\
Royal Astronomical Society, the discussion of their results needs a lot\
of work before I think the paper should be accepted for publication.\
\
My specific comments are:\
\
1.\'a0 The authors do not discuss how inclination effects bias their results.\
\'a0 \'a0 In several papers by Seigar and Davis etc., they spend some time\
\'a0 \'a0 discussing how they correct for inclination when measuring\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angles.\'a0 While I understand this is not feasible in a Galaxy Zoo\
\'a0 \'a0 project, the authors should discuss how inclination effects may bias\
\'a0 \'a0 their results.\
\
2.\'a0 I was a little bit surprised that the authors omitted citations to some\
\'a0 \'a0 important papers from the 1990s that may actually support their results.\
\'a0 \'a0 The authors should cite Seigar & James (1998, MNRAS, 299, 685) who\
\'a0 \'a0 showed that there is a lot of scatter in a plot of pitch angle vs\
\'a0 \'a0 Hubble type (see their Figure 4) and also a lot of scatter between\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angle and the fraction of K-band light in the disk (see their\
\'a0 \'a0 Figure 5).\'a0 However, Seigar & James (1998, MNRAS, 299, 673) also\
\'a0 \'a0 find a lot of scatter (or a lack of a correlation) between Bulge-to-\
\'a0 \'a0 disk ratio and Hubble type, which does not support the results here.\
\'a0 \'a0 Finally, in Figure 13 of de Jong (1996, A&A, 313, 45) shows a lot of\
\'a0 \'a0 scatter between a plot of bulge absolute magnitude and morphological\
\'a0 \'a0 type.\'a0 While these papers are now 20+ years old, they are considered\
\'a0 \'a0 seminal works in the field, so they should be appropriately cited.\
\
3.\'a0 The authors do not spend enough time accurately discussing the\
\'a0 \'a0 correlations expected from density wave theories.\'a0 According to\
\'a0 \'a0 the theory of global models (Bertin et al. 1989, ApJ, 338, 78;\
\'a0 \'a0 Bertin et al. 1989, ApJ, 338, 104; Bertin 1993, PASP, 105, 640),\
\'a0 \'a0 in which density waves are treated similarly to waves on a string,\
\'a0 \'a0 the pitch angle of the spiral structure depends upon not only\
\'a0 \'a0 the bulge mass, but also the gas density in the disk.\'a0 The result\
\'a0 \'a0 of Davis et al. (2015) finds a correlation between three\
\'a0 \'a0 quantities, the bulge mass, the spiral pitch angle, and the HI\
\'a0 \'a0 surface density in the disk, a result they refer to as a fundamental\
\'a0 \'a0 plane for spiral structure.\'a0 I feel that the result of Davis et al.\
\'a0 \'a0 (2015) is mis-represented in this paper, and only very briefly (and\
\'a0 \'a0 incorrectly) discussed in the first paragraph of Section 3.2 and in\
\'a0 \'a0 the third pagraph of Section 4. This needs to be corrected.\
\
4.\'a0 The main basis the authors use to conclude that spiral structure must\
\'a0 \'a0 wind up is their result that, for a given bulge size, there is a lot\
\'a0 \'a0 of scatter in the spiral pitch angles.\'a0 The authors need to spend more\
\'a0 \'a0 time discussing other potential causes of this scatter.\'a0 One of these\
\'a0 \'a0 sources of scatter has already been explaing in my point 3 above, i.e.,\
\'a0 \'a0 the relation is between three parameters and the scatter results\
\'a0 \'a0 from differences in galaxy to galaxy disk gas denities.\'a0 Another\
\'a0 \'a0 potential source of scatter is differences in the Toomre stability\
\'a0 \'a0 criterion (Q) as discussed in Seigar et al. (2008, ApJL, 678, L93).\
\'a0 \'a0 To me it seems that the authors jump to some very strong conclusions\
\'a0 \'a0 based on the scatter that they have found.\'a0 Furthermore, if inclination\
\'a0 \'a0 effects result in strong biases, this could be the dominant source\
\'a0 \'a0 of scatter in their figures.\
\
5.\'a0 In the third paragraph of Section 4, the authors briefly state that\
\'a0 \'a0 pitch angles in density waves should correlate with shear in the disk.\
\'a0 \'a0 This correlation has been confirmed observationally in Seigar et al.\
\'a0 \'a0 (2005, MNRAS, 359, 1065), Seigar et al. (2006, ApJ, 645, 1012) and\
\'a0 \'a0 Seigar et al. (2014, ApJ, 795, 90).\'a0 Also, the same results bears\
\'a0 \'a0 out in simulations (Grand et al. 2013, A&A, 553, A77).\'a0 These papers\
\'a0 \'a0 should at least be cited at this point.\
\
6.\'a0 At the end of their discussion, the authors pretty much write off the\
\'a0 \'a0 relation between pitch angle and SMBH mass that has been developed\
\'a0 \'a0 over the last decade.\'a0 I think this is difficult to write off with a\
\'a0 \'a0 simple wave of the hand.\'a0 Several papers seem to be pointing in the\
\'a0 \'a0 same direction.\'a0 If the authors want to discuss this, it should be\
\'a0 \'a0 discussed in more detail.\'a0 I suggest they cite the discovery paper,\
\'a0 \'a0 Seigar et al. (2008, ApJL, 678, L93), as well as the follow up paper\
\'a0 \'a0 by (Berrier et al. 2011 ApJ, 769, 132) which confirmed the\
\'a0 \'a0 relationship.\'a0 Furthermore, Mutlu-Pakdil et al. (2018, MNRAS, 474,\
\'a0 \'a0 2594) have shown that the relationship between pitch angle and\
\'a0 \'a0 SMBH mass also shows up in galaxy images from the Illustris simulation.\
\'a0 \'a0 I think this needs more discussion.\'a0 Given the current issues in their\
\'a0 \'a0 paper, I don't think the authors should be so quick to write off a\
\'a0 \'a0 result that is now on rather firm footing, especially as the simulation\
\'a0 \'a0 data seems to confirm the correlation.}